# Cuestomize Introduction
**Cuestomize** is a *Kubernetes Package Manager* using *CUE-lang* and integrated in *Kustomize*.

It is implemented as a Kustomize *KRM function* that reads a CUE model, and optionally some input resources from the Kustomize stream, generates some manifests, and passes them back to the Kustomize stream.

It provides the type-safety of CUE and the flexibility of kustomize, combined in a single tool.

Moreover, it allows your CUE model to consume resources from the Kustomize stream, which can be used to feed the CUE model with additonal contextual data.<br/>
This means with Cuestomize you have two ways to pass input data to your CUE model:
- the `input` section of the KRM function's specification (similar to Helm values)
- resources from the Kustomize stream.

The CUE model can then use the input values and resources to generate the output manifests.

The CUE model can either be pulled from an OCI registry, or be local to the KRM function (in which case you need to build and image that bundles both the CUE model and the Cuestomize binary).

## Features
- **Type-safety**: CUE is a strongly typed language, so you are guaranteed that the generated resources are valid from a schema point of view.
- **Flexibility**: Kustomize is a very flexible tool, and Cuestomize lets you leverage that flexibility by being integrated in Kustomize, while still having the benefits of CUE.
- **Modularity**: CUE models can be composed together, so you can build complex models by combining simpler ones.
- **OCI support**: CUE models can be pulled from OCI registries, making it easy to share and reuse them.
- **Validation**: Cuestomize, leveraging CUE, gives you the power to validate your manifest generation process from end to end. You can validate both the input data and the generated resources against their respective schemas.<br/>With Cuestomize, you won't suffer from YAML indentation issues or misspelled fields anymore. If an unexpected field is found, or a required field is missing, CUE will raise an error during the evaluation of the model, preventing the generation of invalid manifests.

---
# Glossary
- **Cuestomize**: both the KRM function and the binary that gets executed in the container.
- **CUE model**: it is a CUE-lang module that bundles the manifest generation logic. It is expected to have an `outputs` field which is a slice of KRM resources, and optionally an `input` field and an `includes` field (see [CUE Model Integration](./02_cue_model_integration.md) for more details).
- **Inputs**: the data that is passed to the CUE model via the `input` field of the function's specification.
- **Includes**: resources that are passed to the CUE model via the `includes` field of the function's specification. These resources are taken from the Kustomize input stream.
- **Outputs**: the resources generated by the CUE model and passed back to Kustomize.
